src/posts/chapter-7-the-inner-inner-self-what-really-drives-you.md, before:

---
title: "Chapter 7: The inner, inner self - what really drives you?"
featuredImage: /static/img/TDS_a_couple_jogging_in_an_urban_area_Light_colorful_sketch_a8347d58-73df-481f-87e2-b965876a346a.png
secret: false
description: People do change, but do they really? Let's find out
date: 2023-07-06T11:00:30.820Z
tags:
  - Frontpage
---
## People do change, but do they really?

Do you think you can change yourself?

What that change would be? Gaining new habits? Getting fit? Learning new skills?

Maybe learning how to react to certain situations differently?



## Tell me your biggest problem and I will tell you who you are

Your biggest problem is the sphere where you are sustaining the biggest friction for some reason.... Much bigger friction than other people could deal with, other people who would already be letting go and moving on.

So, do you have *the problem*? Or the problem has you? Or you are the source of the "*experience of problem*"?



## Chronic pain - internal not that different than physical

Let's imagine a person experiencing chronic pain. He can't escape it, he has to live with it. He is unhappy, he keeps feeling it, keeps experiencing it, and nothing will change it.

He tried to fix it, heal it, do something about it multiple times, but the pain persisted.



Would that situation be so different from a man constantly being hurt internally, for example by experiencing rejection from other people that hurts him badly?

One would say, that he has a choice. For example he can change his surroundings, he can move out to different city or country, he can meet different friends. 

If it hurts, and he can do a big step back "no! no!" and stop being hurt, why would he try literally everything else but not it? Why does he stick?



For sure you know people who seem to stick to a bad situation they are in, wondering "*why wouldn't they just change something*"?



## The inner, inner you was shaped without your consciousness

This is why you go around the world, wondering, *why this is happening to me*?



You just don't remember... but something is there. An invisible leash, holding you there.



You can change your habits, your diet, your spouse, your job, but the inner you is there, solid as a rock.



Nature will do its work. It will bring you back to the area where you are for some reason sustaining a much bigger pain tolerance than others. And you will experience it all over again.



Would you like to try to heal it?



## Talk to inner-inner-you.

1. Name your biggest problem

2. Ask yourself "*who I really am, so I keep allowing this?*"

3. Ask yourself "*what are my fears that force me to stick to it while others would not?*"

4. Ask yourself "who exactly is the person holding these fears"

5. Find this little guy deep at the bottom. Holding tight, scared, blind.

6. Visualise him. With details, understand him. Be empathetic.

6. Talk to him in your own way.



................. God luck!

Commit message:

Update Blog “chapter-7-the-inner-inner-self-what-really-drives-you”

src/posts/chapter-7-the-inner-inner-self-what-really-drives-you.md, after:

---
title: "Chapter 7: The inner, inner self - what really drives you?"
featuredImage: /static/img/TDS_a_couple_jogging_in_an_urban_area_Light_colorful_sketch_a8347d58-73df-481f-87e2-b965876a346a.png
secret: false
description: People do change, but do they really? Let's find out
date: 2023-07-06T11:00:30.820Z
tags:
  - Frontpage
---
## People do change, but do they really?

Do you think you can change yourself?

What that change would be? Gaining new habits? Getting fit? Learning new skills?

Maybe learning how to react to certain situations differently?

## Tell me your biggest problem and I will tell you who you are

Your biggest problem is the sphere where you are sustaining the biggest friction for some reason.... Much bigger friction than other people could deal with, other people who would already be letting go and moving on.

So, do you have *the problem*? Or the problem has you? Or you are the source of the "*experience of problem*"?

## Chronic pain - internal not that different than physical

Let's imagine a person experiencing chronic pain. He can't escape it, he has to live with it. He is unhappy, he keeps feeling it, keeps experiencing it, and nothing will change it.

He tried to fix it, heal it, do something about it multiple times, but the pain persisted.

Would that situation be so different from a man constantly being hurt internally, for example by experiencing rejection from other people that hurts him badly?

One would say, that he has a choice. For example he can change his surroundings, he can move out to different city or country, he can meet different friends. 

If it hurts, and he can do a big step back "no! no!" and stop being hurt, why would he try literally everything else but not it? Why does he stick?

For sure you know people who seem to stick to a bad situation they are in, wondering "*why wouldn't they just change something*"?

## The inner, inner you was shaped without your consciousness

This is why you go around the world, wondering, *why this is happening to me*?

You just don't remember... but something is there. An invisible leash, holding you there.

You can change your habits, your diet, your spouse, your job, but the inner you is there, solid as a rock.

Nature will do its work. It will bring you back to the area where you are for some reason sustaining a much bigger pain tolerance than others. And you will experience it all over again.

Would you like to try to heal it?

## Talk to inner-inner-you.

1. Name your biggest problem
2. Ask yourself "*who I really am, so I keep allowing this?*"
3. Ask yourself "*what are my fears that force me to stick to it while others would not?*"
4. Ask yourself "who exactly is the person holding these fears"
5. Find this little guy deep at the bottom. Holding tight, scared, blind.
6. Visualise him. With details, understand him. Be empathetic.
7. Talk to him in your own way.





You can't change him, remove him, because he is **YOU**. This is the real YOU.

What you can do... is to notice the false beliefs he is holding. Put some light on them. Let him see the truth.
