src/posts/octalysis-vs-emotion-shift-framework.md, before:

---
title: Octalysis vs Emotion Shift gamification framework
description: How does Octalysis framework popare to another popular Emotion Shift framework? Which one works best for business gamification?
author: Dariusz Tarczyński
date: 2023-02-21T20:08:44.485Z
tags:
  - Gamification
---
**How does Octalysis compare to the Emotion Shift Framework**

**Octalysis** is framework authored by Yu-Kai Chou.

It bases on princple of 8 core "elements" of gamification:
Epic meaning, Empowerment, Social Influence, Unpredictability, Avoidance, Scarcity, Ownership, Accomplishment.

It belongs to the "early adopters" group, from times where gamification was term rather unheard of. 

It can explain current gamification systems in a very easy and visual way, just like SWOT analysis in business management.


**Emotional Shift** is a framework that focues not on the techniques used, or functionalities, but on transforming specific user states.

Contrary to **Octalysis** which is focused on design-first approach to gamificaiton, **Emotional Shift** framework puts user emotional state and his history in the first place.


**3 steps to implement the Emotional Shift Framework**:
- pick "emotional persona" from the table
- use **Emotional Shift** chart to define target emotions you want to trigger
- apply only those gamification techniques that align with these emotions.


Example:
1. Emotional persona - "Explorer", "Introvert"
2. Picking "Explorer" and "Introvert" created the following result:
    - 80% Quests
    - 75% Share within closed community

    - 25% Share with everyone
    - 20% Random rewards

Results above 50% are considered **engaging**
Results below 50% will likely **discourage** the player.


You should consider multiple emotional personas, but remember that it is very rare to see one size that will fit them all. 

Just like in video games. Some preffer puzzles, some would like to see more action, business implementation of gamification needs to target group that seeks a specific kind of narrative.

**Summary**

While **Octalysis framework** provides great visual representation of different tehcnics used, it doesn't fully respond to "why?" question.

The **"Emotional Shift"** gamification design framework has been built to delivery the "why?" before the "what?" and use that to maximise gamification in environments, that can use only "light gamification' and can't use everything.




To learn more about **"Emotional Shift" gamification framework**, simply book a paid consultation from here: https://calendly.com/dariusz-tdsoft/60-minute-consultation

Is it even to early for this step for you? Feel free to use a free 30-minute "lets get to know each other" meeting, to exchange some early thougths: https://calendly.com/dariusz-tdsoft/meeting-with-dariusz

Commit message:

emotional shift to emotion shift sounds better

src/posts/octalysis-vs-emotion-shift-framework.md, after:

---
title: Octalysis vs Emotion Shift gamification framework
description: How does Octalysis framework popare to another popular Emotion Shift framework? Which one works best for business gamification?
author: Dariusz Tarczyński
date: 2023-02-21T20:08:44.485Z
tags:
  - Gamification
---
**How does Octalysis compare to the Emotion Shift Framework**

**Octalysis** is framework authored by Yu-Kai Chou.

It bases on princple of 8 core "elements" of gamification:
Epic meaning, Empowerment, Social Influence, Unpredictability, Avoidance, Scarcity, Ownership, Accomplishment.

It belongs to the "early adopters" group, from times where gamification was term rather unheard of. 

It can explain current gamification systems in a very easy and visual way, just like SWOT analysis in business management.


**EmotionaShift** is a framework that focues not on the techniques used, or functionalities, but on transforming specific user states.

Contrary to **Octalysis** which is focused on design-first approach to gamificaiton, **Emotion Shift** framework puts user emotional state and his history in the first place.


**3 steps to implement the Emotion Shift Framework**:
- pick "emotional persona" from the table
- use **Emotion Shift** chart to define target emotions you want to trigger
- apply only those gamification techniques that align with these emotions.


Example:
1. Emotional persona - "Explorer", "Introvert"
2. Picking "Explorer" and "Introvert" created the following result:
    - 80% Quests
    - 75% Share within closed community

    - 25% Share with everyone
    - 20% Random rewards

Results above 50% are considered **engaging**
Results below 50% will likely **discourage** the player.


You should consider multiple emotional personas, but remember that it is very rare to see one size that will fit them all. 

Just like in video games. Some preffer puzzles, some would like to see more action, business implementation of gamification needs to target group that seeks a specific kind of narrative.

**Summary**

While **Octalysis framework** provides great visual representation of different tehcnics used, it doesn't fully respond to "why?" question.

The **"Emotion Shift"** gamification design framework has been built to delivery the "why?" before the "what?" and use that to maximise gamification in environments, that can use only "light gamification' and can't use everything.




To learn more about **"Emotion Shift" gamification framework**, simply book a paid consultation from here: https://calendly.com/dariusz-tdsoft/60-minute-consultation

Is it even to early for this step for you? Feel free to use a free 30-minute "lets get to know each other" meeting, to exchange some early thougths: https://calendly.com/dariusz-tdsoft/meeting-with-dariusz
